---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-02-22T17:09:28.231Z'
dateModified: '2016-02-22T17:09:10.023Z'
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
title: ''
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2016-02-22-64eebeee-0479-4a31-bcd6-42141522b30a.md
published: true
url: 64eebeee-0479-4a31-bcd6-42141522b30a/index.html
_type: Article

---
Try this $2 trick to sleep better

When I want to fall asleep quickly, I watch Ancient Aliens. Don't ask. It works. I don't want to know why. Maybe it's Giorgio Tsoukalos and his hair, in which case I should be worried for myself.

Even though I use the Ancient Aliens Technique, I do so sparingly. I don't even have a TV in my bedroom. Watching TV is isn't often recommended to get a better handle on struggling sleep habits because it contradicts biology.

Mr. Melatonin is a chief sleep hormone. When Mr. Melatonin levels are high, we're sleepy.

Our bodies, and all of their the wonderful wizardry, silently communicate with the environment to determine when to let Mr. Melatonin out of its shed. When the sun sets, Mr. Melatonin parades around your body. Darkness = sleepy time.

Or, uhhh, it used to be. I don't know if you've heard. But. Uhh. There's this thing we take for granted called, uhh, _electricity_.

Even though the sun sets _outside_, we live _inside_. With a bunch of lights and electronic devices. Computers. eReaders. iWhatevers. We're staring into miniature suns.

Not good for Mr. Melatonin because light keeps Mr. Melatonin's shed locked. We're often drowning in light up until the moment we close our eyes to sleep, so Mr. Melatonin never comes out to play...until it's too late.

This is why a common suggestion for sleep stragglers = keep your bed room as dark as possible. Turn off electronic devices. Get yourself into a dark setting to encourage Mr. Melatonin to come out from hiding and do his job.

But maybe you're like me.

Maybe the idea of locking yourself inside of a dungeon and staring into the blackness is more stressful than it is comforting. And if that's the case, here's something you should know...

Not all light is created equal.

The light we typically associate with bulbs, computers, and things that illuminate dark rooms is _white_or_blue_light. I'm not quite sure I understand the difference between white and blue light, but I do know both are responsible for heckling Mr. Melatonin into hiding.

But red and amber light don't appear to wreak as much havoc on Mr. Melatonin as blue and white light. If I had the cojones, I'd probably make some sort of connection here between red light and Charlie the caveman using fires to keep warm at night. But I don't. So I'll just tell you how I handle this red, blue, amber, white light situation.

\#1\. Turn off more lights around night time.

\#2\. Download [f.lux][0]on your computer. F.lux is totally free and changes the color of your computer screen emit a light more on par with the sun at specific times of the day (although you can adjust it to whatever you want whenever you want). So at night, it's less white-blue and more red-amber. You can even[download this on an iPad or iPhone][1] if jailbroken. There are some Android apps out there that do the same thing, I believe. Casual Google search hits with an app called Twilight.

\#3\. Use bedside red light.

Get a little night stand, a little lamp, and use a red bulb. The red bulb won't be crazy luminous, so you have to have the book close(er) to the light, hence the nightstand. I have one of these salt lamps with a dimmer. I like it.

\#4\.

It might even help to throw in some red bulb lamps anywhere that you might travel at the night time or the middle of the night. Beats getting hit by an immediate artificial sunrise effect at 3AM. If you want your pee to have a sweet amber glow, check out the[LavNav][2]. Never used it myself, but just letting you know that it's out there if you happen to be a frequent mover in the middle of the night.

P.S.

I only recommend watching TV if the thing you're watching makes you tired. No suspense thrillers or mind twisters.

[0]: http://justgetflux.com/
[1]: http://justgetflux.com/ios.html
[2]: http://www.amazon.com/s/?ie=UTF8&keywords=lavnav&tag=googhydr-20&index=aps&hvadid=3169264401&hvpos=1t1&hvexid=&hvnetw=g&hvrand=12667391701475344376&hvpone=&hvptwo=&hvqmt=b&hvdev=c&ref=pd_sl_93e1okaq9r_b